Enable Azure Automanage on an Azure Arc-enabled server using custom profiles (#1754)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/day2/arc_automanage/arc_automanage_custom_profiles/_index.md

- **[GCP Windows instance](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/gcp/gcp_terraform_windows/)**
- **[AWS Ubuntu EC2 instance](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/aws/aws_terraform_ubuntu/)**
- **[AWS Amazon Linux 2 EC2 instance](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/aws/aws_terraform_al2/)**
- **[Azure Ubuntu VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/azure/azure_arm_template_linux/)**
- **[Azure Windows VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/azure/azure_arm_template_win/)**
- **[VMware vSphere Ubuntu VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vmware/vmware_terraform_ubuntu/)**
- **[VMware vSphere Windows Server VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vmware/vmware_terraform_winsrv/)**
- **[Vagrant Ubuntu box](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vagrant/local_vagrant_ubuntu/)**
- **[Vagrant Windows box](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vagrant/local_vagrant_windows/)**

## Prerequisites

> - As mentioned, this scenario starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or bare-metal servers to Azure Arc. For this scenario we will be using a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) instance that has been already connected to Azure Arc and is visible as a resource in Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This scenario starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or bare-metal servers to Azure Arc. For this scenario we will be using a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) instance that has been already connected to Azure Arc and is visible as a resource in Azure.
```

    ![Screenshot of Azure Portal showing Azure Arc-enabled server](./01.png)

    ![Screenshot of Azure Portal showing Azure Arc-enabled server detail](./02.png)

- [Install or update Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Azure CLI should be running version 2.42.0 or later. Use ```az --version``` to check your current installed version.

- Create Azure service principal (SP)

>     To connect a VM or bare-metal server to Azure Arc, Azure service principal assigned with the "Contributor" role is required. To create it, login to your Azure account run the below command (this can also be done in [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To connect a VM or bare-metal server to Azure Arc, an Azure service principal assigned with the "Contributor" role is required. To create it, login to your Azure account run the below command (this can also be done in [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/)).
```

    ```

    Output should look like this:

    ```json
    {
    "appId": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "displayName": "JumpstartArc",
    "password": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "tenant": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    }
    ```

    > **NOTE: If you create multiple subsequent role assignments on the same service principal, your client secret (password) will be destroyed and recreated each time. Therefore, make sure you grab the correct password**.

    > **NOTE: The Jumpstart scenarios are designed with as much ease of use in-mind and adhering to security-related best practices whenever possible. It is optional but highly recommended to scope the service principal to a specific [Azure subscription and resource group](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest) as well considering using a [less privileged service principal account](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/best-practices)**

## Deployment Options and Automation Flow

This Jumpstart scenario provides multiple paths for deploying and configuring resources. Deployment options include:

- Azure portal
- ARM template via Azure CLI

> For you to get familiar with the automation and deployment flow, below is an explanation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the explanation below to get familiar with the automation and deployment flow.
```

  - _`subscriptionId`_: Subscription ID where you want to create your custom profile.
  - _`azureSecurityBaselineAssignmentType`_: Audit mode for the Azure Security Baseline.
  - _`logAnalyticsWorkspace`_: Name for your Log Analytics workspace.

  ![Parameters](./06.png)

- From the deployment folder run the below command:

  ```shell
    az deployment group create --resource-group <your_resource_group> --template-file automanage.json --parameters automanage.parameters.json
  ```

  ![Scripts output](./07.png)

  > **NOTE: For the script to work properly you must run this command from the deployment folder. The extra dot is due to the shell script having an _export_ function and needs to have the vars exported in the same shell session as the rest of the commands.**

- After the script has finished its run you will have Azure Automanage enabled. You should be able to see the Azure Arc-enabled Server under 'Automanage' with the Status set in 'In progress', after a few minutes it will change to Conformant.

  ![Azure Automanage in progress](./08.png)
  ![Azure Arc-enabled server in Azure Automanage](./09.png)

## Clean up environment

> Complete the following steps to clean up your environment. To disable Azure Automanage you will use the Azure portal, go to the Automanage page that lists all of your auto-managed VMs. Select the checkbox next to the Azure Arc-enabled Server you want to disable from Automanage, then click on the _Disable_ button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the following steps to clean up your environment. To disable Azure Automanage you will use the Azure portal. Go to the Automanage page that lists all of your auto-managed VMs. Select the checkbox next to the Azure Arc-enabled Server you want to disable from Automanage, then click on the _Disable_ button.
```
